Enumeration
           Enumeration is the first step you have to take once you gain access to any system.
The hostname command will return the hostname of the target machine. 
uname -a
Will print system information giving us additional detail about the kernel used by the system.
/proc/version
The proc filesystem (procfs) provides information about the target system processes. You will find proc on many different Linux flavours, making it an essential tool to have in your arsenal.
Looking at /proc/version may give you information on the kernel version and additional data such as whether a compiler (e.g. GCC) is installed.
/etc/issue
Systems can also be identified by looking at the /etc/issue file. This file usually contains some information about the operating system 
ps Command
The ps command is an effective way to see the running processes on a Linux system. Typing ps on your terminal will show processes for the current shell.
The output of the ps (Process Status) will show the following;
PID: The process ID (unique to the process)
TTY: Terminal type used by the user
Time: Amount of CPU time used by the process (this is NOT the time this process has been running for)
CMD: The command or executable running (will NOT display any command line parameter)
The “ps” command provides a few useful options.
ps -A: View all running processes
ps axjf: View process tree (see the tree formation until ps axjf is run below)

ps aux: The aux option will show processes for all users (a), display the user that launched the process (u), and show processes that are not attached to a terminal (x). Looking at the ps aux command output, we can have a better understanding of the system and potential vulnerabilities.
env
The env command will show environmental variables.


sudo -l
The target system may be configured to allow users to run some (or all) commands with root privileges. 
ls.
While looking for potential privilege escalation vectors, please remember to always use the ls command with the -la parameter.
Id
The id command will provide a general overview of the user’s privilege level and group memberships
/etc/passwd
Reading the /etc/passwd file can be an easy way to discover users on the system.

          Remember that this will return all users, some of which are system or service                     users that would not be very useful. Another approach could be to grep for “home” as real users will most likely have their folders under the “home” directory.



history
Looking at earlier commands with the history command can give us some idea about the target system and, albeit rarely, have stored information such as passwords or usernames.
ifconfig
The target system may be a pivoting point to another network. The ifconfig command will give us information about the network interfaces of the system. 

 The example below shows the target system has three interfaces (eth0, tun0, and tun1). Our attacking machine can reach the eth0 interface but can not directly access the two other networks.
This can be confirmed using the ip route command to see which network routes exist.



netstat
Following an initial check for existing interfaces and network routes, it is worth looking into existing communications. The netstat command can be used with several different options to gather information on existing connections.
netstat -a: shows all listening ports and established connections.
netstat -at or netstat -au can also be used to list TCP or UDP protocols respectively.
netstat -l: list ports in “listening” mode. These ports are open and ready to accept incoming connections. This can be used with the “t” option to list only ports that are listening using the TCP protocol 
netstat -s: list network usage statistics by protocol (below) This can also be used with the -t or -u options to limit the output to a specific protocol.
netstat -tp: list connections with the service name and PID information. This can also be used with the -l option to list listening ports. 
netstat -i: Shows interface statistics. We see below that “eth0” and “tun0” are more active than “tun1”.
The netstat usage you will probably see most often in blog posts, write-ups, and courses is netstat -ano which could be broken down as follows;
-a: Display all sockets
-n: Do not resolve names
-o: Display timers
              -  find Command
find . -name flag1.txt: find the file named “flag1.txt” in the current directory
find /home -name flag1.txt: find the file names “flag1.txt” in the /home directory
find / -type d -name config: find the directory named config under “/”
find / -type f -perm 0777: find files with the 777 permissions (files readable, writable, and executable by all users)
find / -perm a=x: find executable files
find /home -user frank: find all files for user “frank” under “/home”
find / -mtime 10: find files that were modified in the last 10 days
find / -atime 10: find files that were accessed in the last 10 day
find / -cmin -60: find files changed within the last hour (60 minutes)
find / -amin -60: find files accesses within the last hour (60 minutes)
find / -size 50M: find files with a 50 MB size
This command can also be used with (+) and (-) signs to specify a file that is larger or smaller than the given size.
The example above returns files that are larger than 100 MB. It is important to note that the “find” command tends to generate errors which sometimes makes the output hard to read. This is why it would be wise to use the “find” command with “-type f 2>/dev/null” to redirect errors to “/dev/null” and have a cleaner output (below).

Automated Enumeration Tools
LinPeas: https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/linPEAS
LinEnum: https://github.com/rebootuser/LinEnum
LES (Linux Exploit Suggester): https://github.com/mzet-/linux-exploit-suggester
Linux Smart Enumeration: https://github.com/diego-treitos/linux-smart-enumeration
Linux Priv Checker: https://github.com/linted/linuxprivchecker
